SUMA Proxy 15.1 on top of SLES (#905)
SUSE/doc-susemanager: modules/installation/pages/install-proxy.adoc

[[installation-proxy]]
= Install {productname} Proxy

> This chapter provides the required KVM settings for installation of {sles} media as the base for {productname} Proxy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install {productname} Proxy, you will need to start by installing {sles} media.
This section covers the KVM settings required to perform a {sles} installation as the base for {productname} Proxy.
```

I know it's longer, but it gets the main point up front, and then describes the finer details (rather than the other way around).

> A kernel virtual machine KVM combined with Virtual Machine Manager ([command]``virt-manager``) will be used as a sandbox for this installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section, we use a KVM and a virtual machine manager as a sandbox for the installation.
```

[[installation-proxy-requirements]]
== SLES KVM Requirements

Use these settings to create a new virtual machine with [command]``virt-manager`` (replace [literal]``<version>`` with the actual version string):

[cols="1,1", options="header"]
|===
| KVM Settings for SLES
| Installation Method: | Local install media (ISO image or CDROM)
| OS:                  | Linux
| Version:             |``SLE-``[literal]``<version>````-Server-x86_64-GM-DVD1.iso``
| Memory:              | _Test Server_ Minumum 2{nbsp}GB
|                      | _Production Server_ Minimum 8{nbsp}GB
| CPUs:                | 2
| Storage Format:      | ISO 3{nbsp}GB
| Disk Space:          | 230{nbsp}GB split between
|                      | [path]``/`` _(root)_ Minimum 24{nbsp}GB
|                      | (Virtual Disk 1) [path]``/srv`` Minimum 100{nbsp}GB
|                      | (Virtual Disk 2) [path]``/var/cache`` _(Squid)_ Minimum 100{nbsp}GB
| Name:                | example-proxy
| Network              | Bridge br0
|===

[[installation-proxy-sles-settings]]
=== SLES KVM Settings

> This sections guides you through the installation of {productname} Proxy utilizing the full installation media with KVM and [command]``virt-manager``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section covers the {productname} Proxy installation, using the full installation media with KVM and [command]``virt-manager``.
```

Reviewer: So all these stem sentences are a bit confusing: you mention that it's installing a Proxy, with SLES as a base, using KVM and virt-manager about three or four times, but always with slightly different emphasis. I think you need to review the focus, and maybe drop one or two of them, it's pretty repetitive.

> To complete the following steps, you have previously set up an account with SCC and downloaded the SLES full installation media.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you begin, you will need to have created an account with {scc}, and downloaded the {sles} installation media.
```

.Procedure: Preparing for SLES Installation

> . In [command]``virt-manager`` select menu:File[New Virtual Machine].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the {productname} {webui}, navigate to menu:Systems[virt-manager], and click menu:File[New Virtual Machine].
```
Not sure if that location is correct, virt-manager isn't currently installed on the ref server.

Author: No, I actually mean the Virtual Machine Manager ([command]``virt-manager``) tool.  I probably should rephrase it that way.

[[installation-proxy]]

> = Install {productname} Proxy (wip)

Reviewer: ??

> = Install {productname} Proxy (wip)

Author: ```suggestion
= Install {productname} Proxy
```
I'm not sure whether we want to mention KVM/libvirt somehow?

This chapter provides the required KVM settings for installation of {sles} media as the base for {productname} Proxy.
A kernel virtual machine KVM combined with Virtual Machine Manager ([command]``virt-manager``) will be used as a sandbox for this installation.

[[installation-proxy-requirements]]
== SLES KVM Requirements

> Enter the following settings when creating a new virtual machine using [command]``virt-manager`` (replace [literal]``<version>`` with the actual version string):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use these settings to create a new virtual machine with [command]``virt-manager`` (replace [literal]``<version>`` with the actual version string):
```

[cols="1,1", options="header"]
|===
| KVM Settings for SLES
| Installation Method: | Local install media (ISO image or CDROM)
| OS:                  | Linux
| Version:             |``SLE-``[literal]``<version>````-Server-x86_64-GM-DVD1.iso``
| Memory:              | _Test Server_ Minumum 2{nbsp}GB
|                      | _Production Server_ Minimum 8{nbsp}GB
| CPUs:                | 2
| Storage Format:      | ISO 3{nbsp}GB
| Disk Space:          | 230{nbsp}GB split between
|                      | [path]``/`` _(root)_ Minimum 24{nbsp}GB
|                      | (Virtual Disk 1) [path]``/srv`` Minimum 100{nbsp}GB
|                      | (Virtual Disk 2) [path]``/var/cache`` _(Squid)_ Minimum 100{nbsp}GB
| Name:                | example-proxy
| Network              | Bridge br0
|===

[[installation-proxy-sles-settings]]
=== SLES KVM Settings

This section provides guidance on installation of {productname} Proxy

> utilizing the full installation media with KVM and [command]``virt-manager``.

Reviewer: Extra line break here.

Reviewer: I would probably reword as "This sections guides you through" or similar, to get rid of the zombie "provides guidance".

Author: submitting externally

> This section assumes you have previously setup an account with SCC and downloaded the SLES full installation media.

Reviewer: I would probably reword the first sentence as "This sections guides you through" or similar, to get rid of the zombie "provides guidance". The second sentence also has some interesting anthropomorphism going on ;)

Author: :)

.Procedure: Preparing for SLES Installation
. In [command]``virt-manager`` select menu:File[New Virtual Machine].

> . Select btn:[Local install media (ISO image or CDROM)].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click btn:[Local install media (ISO image or CDROM)].
```

> . Ensure btn:[Use ISO Image] is selected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select btn:[Use ISO Image].
```

Author: this is strange (taken over from some other file). Maybe, this is just a msg text.

Author: There is no Use ISO Image button.  re-phrasing, comitted externally.

> Then click btn:[Browse] and locate the full SLES image you downloaded from your SCC account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click btn:[Browse] and locate the full SLES image you downloaded from your SCC account.
```

. Configure your machine with at least 2 GB RAM and a minimum of 2 CPUs.

. Create a storage device with a minimum of 230 GB storage space for the installation.
During the partitioning setup of the SLES installation this disk should be partitioned into the following disks:
+
// FIXME: not sure about swap space
// |4{nbsp}GB Swap space
+
[cols="1", options="header"]
|===
| Disk Space Requirements
| 100{nbsp}GB XFS partition (or dedicated virtual disk) for [path]``/srv/``
| 100{nbsp}GB XFS partition (or dedicated virtual disk) for [path]``/var/cache/``
|===

> . The remaining storage space will be used by the operating system for the root partition.

Reviewer: This shouldn't be a step, connect it back up to the previous one.

Author: ok, connected with the previous step.

> Select btn:[Finish] to begin the installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click btn:[Finish] to begin the installation.
```

Also: clicking "finish" to "begin" is confusing :confused:

Author: Yes ;) @Loquacity , do you think we should rephrase it?
```
. Click btn:[Finish] to save the installation settings and begin the installation.
```
Or work with the UI experts and improve the software dialogs?  Revolution...

Reviewer: Can I choose both?

> Installation of {sles} will begin.

Reviewer: This is just repeating the last sentence.

> For more information on completing an installation of {sles}, see https://documentation.suse.com/sles/15-SP1/html/SLES-all/art-sle-installquick.html.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on installing {sles}, see https://documentation.suse.com/sles/15-SP1/html/SLES-all/art-sle-installquick.html.
```

[[installation-proxy-sles]]
== Change SLES for SUSE Manager Proxy

[[proc-installation-proxy-sles]]
.Procedure: Changing SLES for {productname} Proxy Installation

// Most steps are currently needed because of 4.0 workarounds
. Log in as `root`.

. Uninstall the `sles-release` package:
+

----
rpm -e --nodeps sles-release
----

. Register {productname} Proxy with SCC (for example, replace `<productversion>` with `{productnumber}` and `<architecture>` with `x86_64`):
+

----
SUSEConnect -e<EMAIL_ADDRESS> -r<SUSE_MANAGER_PROXY_CODE> \
  -p SUSE-Manager-Proxy/<productversion>/<architecture>
----

. Add {productname} repositories:
+

----
SUSEConnect -p sle-module-basesystem/15.1/x86_64
SUSEConnect -p sle-module-server-applications/15.1/x86_64
SUSEConnect -p sle-module-suse-manager-proxy/4.0/x86_64
----

> . Verify that you allow installing recommended packages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Check that you have allowed installing recommended packages.
```

Check the settings in `/etc/zypp/zypp.conf`:
+
----
solver.onlyRequires = false
----

. Install the {productname} Proxy pattern:
+

----
zypper in -t pattern suma_proxy
----

. Reboot.

> Continue with registering the installed {productname} Proxy as a {productname} client: xref:proxy-registration.adoc[].

Reviewer: Not sure if this xref is right.

Author: We can recheck, but I think this is the default procedure if you want to integrate a proxy in your "landscape".

. In [command]``virt-manager`` select menu:File[New Virtual Machine].

. Select btn:[Local install media (ISO image or CDROM)].

. Ensure btn:[Use ISO Image] is selected.
Then click btn:[Browse] and locate the full SLES image you downloaded from your SCC account.

. Configure your machine with at least 2 GB RAM and a minimum of 2 CPUs.

. Create a storage device with a minimum of 230 GB storage space for the installation.
During the partitioning setup of the SLES installation this disk should be partitioned into the following disks:
+
// FIXME: not sure about swap space
// |4{nbsp}GB Swap space
+
[cols="1", options="header"]
|===
| Disk Space Requirements
| 100{nbsp}GB XFS partition (or dedicated virtual disk) for [path]``/srv/``
| 100{nbsp}GB XFS partition (or dedicated virtual disk) for [path]``/var/cache/``
|===

. The remaining storage space will be used by the operating system for the root partition.
Select btn:[Finish] to begin the installation.

Installation of {sles} will begin.
For more information on completing an installation of {sles}, see: https://documentation.suse.com/sles/15-SP1/html/SLES-all/art-sle-installquick.html.

[[installation-proxy-prep]]

> == Prepare SLES for SUSE Manager Proxy

Reviewer 2: Maybe we name it 

- Change SLES to SUSE Manager Proxy
- Convert SLES to SUSE Manager Proxy

or similar?

Author: ok, pushed

[[proc.jeos.susemgr.prep]]

> .Procedure: Preparing SLES for {productname} Proxy Installation

Reviewer 2: same here

Author: ok, pushed

// Most steps are currently needed because of 4.0 workarounds
. Log in as `root`.

. Uninstall the `sles-release` package:
+

----
rpm -e --nodeps sles-release

> ----

Reviewer 3: Ah, so this is again this special case where the user installs a SLES and converts it into a SUMA proxy. If this is intended, it is ok for me. Of course one could also simply boot from SLE-15-SP1-Installer-DVD-x86_64-GM-DVD1.iso and install the SUMA Proxy product from the very beginning. But I'm sure you are aware of that.

. Register {productname} Proxy with SCC (for example, replace `<productnumber>` with `{productnumber}` and `<architecture>` with `x86_64`):
+

----
SUSEConnect -e<EMAIL_ADDRESS> -r<SUSE_MANAGER_PROXY_CODE> \

>   -p sle-module-suse-manager-proxy/<productnumber>/<architecture>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  -p sle-product-suse-manager-proxy/<productnumber>/<architecture>
```

Reviewer 2: productnumber => productversion ?

Author: I'll push both suggestions from the CL

----

. Add {productname} repositories:
+

----
SUSEConnect -p sle-module-basesystem/15.1/x86_64

> SUSEConnect -p sle-module-server-applications/15.1/x86_64

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure this is sufficient; you also need the repos that contain the actual proxy packages. As reference from my test proxy:
46 | spacewalk:sle-module-basesystem15-sp1-pool-x86_64-proxy-4.0                                     | SLE-Module-Basesystem15-SP1-Pool for x86_64 Proxy 4.0             | Ja        | ( p) Ja         | Ja            
47 | spacewalk:sle-module-basesystem15-sp1-updates-x86_64-proxy-4.0                                  | SLE-Module-Basesystem15-SP1-Updates for x86_64 Proxy 4.0          | Ja        | ( p) Ja         | Ja            
48 | spacewalk:sle-module-server-applications15-sp1-pool-x86_64-proxy-4.0                            | SLE-Module-Server-Applications15-SP1-Pool for x86_64 Proxy 4.0    | Ja        | ( p) Ja         | Ja            
49 | spacewalk:sle-module-server-applications15-sp1-updates-x86_64-proxy-4.0                         | SLE-Module-Server-Applications15-SP1-Updates for x86_64 Proxy 4.0 | Ja        | ( p) Ja         | Ja            
50 | spacewalk:sle-module-suse-manager-proxy-4.0-pool-x86_64                                         | SLE-Module-SUSE-Manager-Proxy-4.0-Pool for x86_64                 | Ja        | ( p) Ja         | Ja            
51 | spacewalk:sle-module-suse-manager-proxy-4.0-updates-x86_64                                      | SLE-Module-SUSE-Manager-Proxy-4.0-Updates for x86_64              | Ja        | ( p) Ja         | Ja            
52 | spacewalk:sle-product-suse-manager-proxy-4.0-pool-x86_64                                        | SLE-Product-SUSE-Manager-Proxy-4.0-Pool for x86_64                | Ja        | ( p) Ja         | Ja            
53 | spacewalk:sle-product-suse-manager-proxy-4.0-updates-x86_64                                     | SLE-Product-SUSE-Manager-Proxy-4.0-Updates for x86_64             | Ja        | ( p) Ja         | Ja

Author: Yes, I also have now all these, thanks to mc!  Plus some debuginfo repos.  The right order of SUSEConnect calls made them available :)

> SUSEConnect -p sle-module-server-applications/15.1/x86_64

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
SUSEConnect -p sle-module-server-applications/15.1/x86_64
SUSEConnect -p sle-module-suse-manager-proxy/15.1/x86_64
```

Reviewer 3: > 

Additionally I have sle-product-suse-manager-proxy-4.0-pool-x86_64 here (note "product" instead of "module").

Reviewer 2: The first registration must use "sle-product-XXXX" the "module" is the last one as it requires all the other channels.

Author: When all suggestions are in, I'll give it another try.  I'm wondering whether you've to register the SLES base installation first?  Probably with a SLES regcode?  I've the feeling without a SLES registration it will not offer the modules.  And then the question is when you must erase sles-release and re-register with the SUMAProxy code...

Reviewer 2: You have to register "sle-product-suse-manager-proxy" first. This will offer the modules.
We are a Base product.

----
+

> To get all features working you should allow to install also recommended packages.

Reviewer 2: Sometimes people create there own "golden SLES image". In this case the solver configuration allow already to install recommended packages.
I think we should say "verify that you allow installing recommended packages. Check the settings in ...."

Author: ok, submitted from the CL.
